#Social Identity

Agents that interact in complex social situations need to take the social
situation in consideration in order to perform believably, and any complex
society is fragmented in different social groups, each with its own
interests, values, structure and identity. Social Identity theory explains
how people categorize themselves as members of one social group in
comparison with another. Due to it's relevance to social behaviour, we
believe that this theory, is especially important if the aim is to build
natural intelligence and human-like behaviour.

Social identity is part of an individual's perception of a social situation.
It is the identity ascribed with basis on the perception of membership of
social groups and the attachment to that membership. It implies the
categorization of the agents (including the self) in terms of the
belongingness to social groups. Thus, apart from all individual
characteristics that build a personal identity each agent should have a
social identity comprised of all social groups they belong to.

Accordingly to this theory, the psychological process of social
identification, constitutes a basis for intragroup cooperation. Individuals
are inclined to favour other individuals with similar identities (e.g.
belonging to the same social groups) or blame others of different social
identities for the problems in a group. This can be extended to team
commitments. Social identity will influence the decision of agents when
considering following their own interests or commit (or keep the commitment)
to their team goals.

Our goal is to build agents that are able to behave believably in teams with
human members. As such we propose that agents should take into account
social identity.

